# Highland-Maps

This repository contains maps produced for James Monroe Highland as part of the William and Mary Institute for Integrative Conservation's year-long research program. To easily view the final map results without having to open ArcGIS or related software, open the provided layouts (JPG files). 

Layout Ailanthus Abundance: In addition to overall invasion, this study focused on a species of interest: ailanthus altissima. Rather than polygons representing invasion cover class, the 960 points represent clusters of ailanthus within the 56 designated compartment map areas.

Layout Compartment Invasion: polygons color-coded by invasive cover class (0-5% invasion = cover class 1; 5-25% invasion = cover class 2; 25-50% invasion = cover class 3; 50-75% invasion = cover class 4; 75-100% invasion = cover class 5). Due to brush overgrowth and lack of trails in some areas, I could not survey all orginally specified polygons within the Highland property boundary. However, with enough data wrangling, the optimized machine learning algorithm tested in the Highland-Code repository predicted unsurveyed compartments. The  layout shows a legend for layers used either for reference for surveying in the field or for machine learning efforts. Other features used for machine learning that are not displayed in the legend are distance and elevation from floodplain, which were computed using a series of geoprocessing tools. Labeled compartments represent Highland ID (HID), which was used to reference each compartment while surveying in the field. 

Layout New ML Predict: polygons color-coded by invasive cover class with new, white polygons drawn and geoprocessed specifically for cover class prediction by the Multilayer Perceptron, optimized in the Highland-Code repository.

Layout Compartment ML: After the aforementioned new white polygons were read into the Highland-Code jupyter notebooks and subsequently cleaned, analyzed and predicted by the optimized Multilayer Perceptron model, the results from the predicted model were joined to the New ML Predict attribute table. Then, unique values were color coded with the same invasive cover class scheme to show the results from the predicted model.

Layout Microstegium Compartments: In the field, each compartment was labeled for overall invasion and individual invasion. Individual invasion levels were rated on a scale of 0-4 for each species: 0 = species not found within compartment; 1 = 0-1% of cover in compartment; 2 = 1-5% of cover; 3 = 5-20% of cover; 4 = greater than 20% of cover. This specific layout shows the distribution of a particularly interesting species: Microstegium vimineum. As shown in the map, microstegium does well near the floodplain as it is an annual species that uses vectors like streams to spread its seeds each season.
